Encryption means encrypting the data to communicate it securily . 

Types : 

ASymmitric : Means there area pair of keys with which enc/dec can be done . Data encription done with public key can only be 
decrypted with private key and vice versa .. Most important vice versa . 

Use cases : 

1. Sending credit card data from js to server with public private . send by encryting by public but can be decrypted with private only . 
2 .ssh secure shell. 
3. vpn . 
4. sftp . 
5. Data transfer in https happens with publicc/private . Data enc/dec happens on both sides . 


Benifits of Symittric is faster and simple . 

Symittric : 
Only one key for encryption is there and can be decrypted with this also . 
1. To store credit card data in db . 
2. 

AES : Advanced Encryption standards : 
1. It is standardised protoco; worldwide . 
2  There are testing frameowrks available for this encryption by community of encryption standards . 

Needs for encryption : 
1. Clear or plain text data . 
2. Encryption key which is same for decription as well . 
3. After encryption we will get the cipther text . 
4. for decription u need same key and encrypted data to convert it back to plain text . 

Data requirements for encrytion :
It needs minimum 16 bytes of data . After that it it breaks data in 16 bytes chunks , But for size let than 16 bytes it padds data to make it 16 bytes . 
Hence 4 bytes data can be encrypted . 

Keys standards : Keys can be of any size . But as per standars keys should be of 128 , 192 or 256 bits means 16 , 24 or 32 bytes or 8 , 12 or 16 characters . 
Larger the key , larger thae work needed for encryption . stronger is the encryption . Any thing can be used for encryption . Name or anything . Best standard is 128
0r 256 bits means 16 or 32 bytes means passwords for 8 or 16 characters are good . like vaneet$1  , feq74uiyuityui@# . 

Machnisms for making the keys strong  : 
1. Encrypt the simple key with some hash generator . For exmaple excrypt vaneet with sha algo get a 16 bytes of hash and use it to encrypt the data by aes . In this way 
key will becme super strong . Now for decrytion just again hash vaneet with sha in same way then decrypt data with aes by this key  .
2. Random number generaters can give strong keys . 








 

