How ssl is established : 

1. Clien says ssl hello . 
2. server sends ssl certificate which includes public key  . Now public key is transmitted over wire can be seen by attacker. 
3. client creates a key and encrypts it with public key . now no one can decrypt it as it can be decrypted only by server . 
4. Now server will decrpt the key and both wull have same key to enc/dec . 
5. ssl certificate has both for authentication weather the content is coming from a secure certified server and public key . 

How SSH key authentication works in ssh . 
1. A local client system if wants to take ssh of various remote systems then client has to provide user name 
   and password every time client wants to connect to server .
2. SSH keygen can be used for this purpose which will allow client to not enter password every time . 
3. Procedure is defined in the link below : 
   https://help.github.com/articles/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent/
4. Analogy for this is detailed in the link below : 
   http://blakesmith.me/2010/02/08/understanding-public-key-private-key-concepts.html
5. Procedure of working is follow : 
   5.1. While genration of keys client saves public and private keys in ~/.ssh folder . Client sends an ID to server to whom 
   ssh is being taken . ID was present in public key that was saved in server's ~/.ssh/autherized_keys directory . 
   5.2. Now server genrates a random number and encrypts it with public key and sends back to client . 
   5.3. Client decrypts the key . Append this key to ssh session key and genrated an MD5 hash of it and pass it to the server . 
   5.4. Now server append that random random number to ssh session key and takes MD5 hash of it .  
   5.5. If String produced in step 5.3 by client and 5.4 by server are same it means the data decrypted by 
        public key by server was decrypted by client by private key .Which means client is authentic . 
   5.6. Now connection is established .      
        
